Probabilities.
Definitely, the most important
distribution to know is
the normal distribution.
We'll see in the next lecture why it's so
important, or
one of the reasons why it's so important.
But nonetheless, if all the distributions
were to get together and
elect a leader, it would for
sure be the normal distribution.
So anyway a random variable is
set to follow a normal Gaut, or
Gaussian distribution with mean mu and
variance sigma squared.
If its associated density is this
function here with the bell curve,
which we'll show in a minute.
If X is a random variable
with this density,
then the expected value of X is mu,
and its variance is sigma squared.
And we simply write this in shorthand
as X, with a little tilde here,
normal mu sigma squared.
When mu equals 0 and sigma equals 1,
the resulting distribution is called
the standard normal distribution.
And standard normal random
variables are often labeled z.
Here I draw the standard
normal density function,
the famous bell curve that
you've probably seen before.
Remember, that for the standard normal
distribution, its mean is 0 and
its standard deviation and variance are 1.
Here I've drawn 1 standard deviation above
and below the mean, 2 standard deviations
above and below the mean, and 3 standard
deviations above and below the mean.
The units of
the standard normal can be thought
of as just standard deviation units.
For example if you go 1 in this direction
you've gone 1 standard deviation unit.
And I would note that for non-standard
normals, it makes a lot of sense and
I think statisticians just kind
of get use to reverting back to
the standard normal by virtue of talking
about standard deviations from the mean.
So if you want to know the probability
that a non-standard normal,
is between mu plus 1 sigma, where mu and
sigma are from it's distribution and
mu minus 1 sigma.
So that would be the area between 1
standard deviation [NOISE] from the mean
for the non-standard normal.
Well, that is exactly the same
probability area for one, for
the, between minus 1 and
plus 1 on the standard normal.
So basically,
all normal distributions look identical.
The only thing that changes
is the units along the axis.
And then if you revert, when you're
talking about normal probabilities to
talking about standard deviations from
the mean, all the probabilities and
everything revert back to
the standard normal calculations.
We'll go through some of the examples but
that's the intuition.
Let me go through some basic reference
probabilities on the standard normal
distribution and draw on their,
maybe this will help us remember them.
So if we talk about one standard
deviation from the mean,
in the standard normal distribution or
any normal distribution.
1 standard deviation from the, the mean,
then about 34% should lie here, and
34% of the mass should lie here.
So that this total area within 1 standard
deviation right here [NOISE] is 68%.
Let's now look at two standard deviations.
So this magenta area here.
So if we go from minus two to plus two,
and
this is on any normal distribution,
the probability of it being, a nor,
a normal distribution being within
two standard deviations of the mean.
The probability mass
associated with that is 95%.
That leaves 2.5% in either tail.
We'll use that frequently when we
talk about confidence intervals.
Now let's look at three standard
deviations from the mean.
That area is about 99% of the mass.
Thought it's hard to read but
it's about 99% of the mass.
So these reference probabilities
you should just commit to memory.
Let's go over some simple rules for moving
between standard and non-standard normals.
So if X is normal with mean
mu in varying sigma squared,
then if we convert the units if of X
to standard deviations from the mean.
In other words,
subtract off the mean mu and
divide by the standard deviation sigma.
The resulting random variable
Z is a standard normal.
Conversely, if we have
a standard normal and
we convert back to the units
of the original data.
In other words,
we multiply times sigma and add the mean.
The resulting random variable X is
non standard normal with mean mu and
variance sigma squared.
We've already discussed this
first bullet point here.
That 68%, 95%, and 99% of the normal
distribution lies within 1, 2, and
3 standard deviations from the mean,
respectively.
Let's also talk about some standard normal
quantiles that we should commit to memory.
I'm drawing a normal
distribution right here.
And let me put the point, minus 1.28.
The mean is of course 0, of course,
the standard normal distribution.
That point is such that 10% of the
density, this is of course is not drawn to
a very good scale, 10% of the den, density
lies below it and then 90% lies above it.
Now for a not necessarily stan,
not standard normal,
this point is not negative 1.28,
it's mu minus 1.28 times sigma.
And this point right here is mu.
But then that would follow the same rule.
10% of this potentially
non-standard normal
distribution lies below
the point mu minus 1.28 sigma.
By symmetry, this point right here,
1.28 on the standard normal distribution,
is the quantile,
such that 10% lies above it.
For potentially non-standard normal, this
point would be mu plus 1.28 times sigma.
So this point 1.28,
on the standard normal and
mu plus 1.28 times sigma on
the potentially non-standard normal.
Would be the point such that 10% lies
above it, and 90% lies below it.
Let's do one more.
One of the more important quantiles
that we have to remember is 1.96,
or close enough to 2,
we often round it up to 2.
Negative 1.96 is the point
that such that 2.5%
of the mass of the normal
distribution lies below it.
And positive 1.96 is the point such
that 2.5% of the mass lies above it.
This would mean that 97.5% lie
above this point right here, and
97.5 lies below that point right there.
So that 95% lies in between.
If we're dealing with a potentially
non-standard normal, notice then it's mu
minus 1.96 times sigma and
mu plus 1.96 times sigma.
Or again the center there would be mew and
for
the standard normal,
the center would be 0.
Of course notice this calculation for
the standard normal when you
plug-in mu equal to 0 and
sigma equal to 1, just of course gives you
back the correct number, 1.96 by itself.
Let's go through some quick
calculations of increasing difficulty.
So first what is the 95th percentile of
a normal mu sigma squared distribution?
So in other words we want
the point X.95 from a normal
distribution having mean mu in variant
sigma squared so that 95% lies below it.
You want that to be 95% and that to be 5%.
So this is the value if we were to
draw samples from this population.
This would be the point such
that 95% of the samples would be
smaller than if we were to draw
a sufficiently large sample.
The easy answer is to use the q
qualifier for the density in R.
In this case qnorm and
the quintile that we want .95.
And make sure that we plug-in the mean,
mu, and standard deviation that we wants.
The square root of sigma squared.
Make sure you plugin the standard
deviation not the variants.
But there's another way
to do this that's easy.
Because we have our standard
normal quartiles memorized.
So we know for the standard
normal which is centered at 0 and
the units along the axis are standard
deviation units from the mean.
That the point 1.645 standard
deviations from the mean Is
the point such that 95% lies below it.
And 5% lies above it.
So, we know that for a non-standard
normal, the point that follows
the same probability, the quantile that
has the same 95% below it and 5% above it.
Has to be exactly 1.645 standard
deviations from the mean.
So we can simply take mu
plus sigma times 1.645 and
that will have to give us our answer.
Let me answer a highly generic
question and as we go through it,
I think it will inform some of our
next couple of questions where we
put some context around it.
So what is the probability that a normal
mu sigma squared is larger than x?
So take our normal distribution that's
non standard so it's centered at mu.
And the width is governed by
the variable sigma squared.
And take a point X, we'd want to
know what's this area right here.
So in R, we could just do p norm,
x mean equals
mu, standard deviation equals sigma,
of course remember that you
plugin the sigma value,
not sigma squared value.
Otherwise you'll get it very wrong.
And then we want lower.tail
equals false to tell
R that we want the upper tail
rather than the lower tail.
Or you could omit that,
you could omit that and do 1 minus that.
Okay that's the easy way.
But a conceptually easy way to do it and
in a way that we can kind of do these
things in my head and get a sense of what
the probabilities are like rather quickly.
Is to convert X into how many standard
deviations from the mean it is.
To do that we simply take X,
subtract off the mean mu and
divide by the standard deviation sigma.
This new number here is
simply X expressed in
how many standard deviations
from the mean it is.
So, for example, if this works out to
be around two standard deviations from
the mean, we know that,
that should be about 2.5%.
So let's put some context around this
by considering a specific example.
Assume the number of daily ad clicks for
companies is approximately
normally distributed with a mean
of 1,020 clicks per day, and
a standard deviation of 50 clicks per day.
Well let's assume that, a get,
days are sort of a random sample of days,
in that if we're talking
about a specific day,
it's a draw from this
general distribution.
What's the probability of getting more
than 1,060 clicks on a given day?
Well, 1,160 clicks is 2.8 standard
deviations from the mean.
So we know this probability has to
be pretty low because it's about 3,
almost 3 standard
deviations from the mean.
We remember, we remember that 3 standard
deviations is pretty far out into
the tail of the normal.
So we know that this probability's
gotta be fairly small.
But let's work through it.
So it's not very likely.
We can obtain that with pnorm,
1,160, mean equals 1,020,
standard deviation equals 50.
And we put lower tail equals false
because we want the probability being
larger than it.
And we get .003 about.
Just to illustrate that if we do this
calculation directly using the standard
normal distribution, where we've
expressed 1,160 as the number of
standard deviations from mean that it is,
then we get the same answer.
I plug-in pnorm 2.8 and
do lower.tail equals false and
of course it gives us the same number.
So we've done a probability calculation,
let's do a quantile
calculation that's similar.
Assume that the number of daily ad clicks
for this company is approximately normally
distributed with a mean of 1020 and
a standard deviation of 50.
What number of daily ad clicks
would represent the one
where 75% have fewer clicks?
And again we're going to assume
the days are our random sample from
a population of days.
There are samples.
So we're not going to be concerned
about whether one day being
close to another day.
Is going to be more co-related or
whether weekend days have more clicks or
fewer clicks than weekday days.
Or any of these intricacies that we'll
learn later on in the class how to
deal with better.
Let's do some just scratch work before we
go to R and actually do the calculation.
Here's our normal distribution with 1,020.
Because 1,020 is both the mean and
the median,
of this specific normal distribution.
We know that, that point is the point
where about 50% lie below it.
So whatever number we get,
it has to be above 1020.
Also consider one standard deviation
above the mean, [NOISE] 1070.
That point, recall, between one standard
deviation, recall that was 68%.
Well that leaves out this
little tail right here.
Let's see if we can think about that.
Well if there's 68% between these two
numbers, that would put 32% outside
of it and then 16% in either tail because
the normal distribution is symmetric.
So from 1070 below should be about 84%.
So we know that whatever number we get
has to be between 1,020 and 1,070.
And here's the command right
here where we do qnorm 0.75,
mean equal to 1,020 and standard
deviation equal to 50 and of course we
get a number between the two numbers
that we were talking about before, 1,054